- Dependency Management is often the bane
of software engineering.
When it comes to security-related topics,
it's even more so of a problem.
Many times when we write software,
we can write the most secure code ever
and still be susceptible to security vulnerabilities
because of a dependency.
We all know the stories of the old and vulnerable component
that caused a system, its data, or worse,
all the customer data to become exposed.
Some of these leaks have been so bad
that they put a large portion of the population at risk
for credit fraud or identity theft.
This is something we must always remember
when writing software and trying to secure it.
So obviously, the exploit is out of our control
since we don't own the code.
Now, if it's an unpatched defect,
we could of course fix it ourselves
assuming it is open source code.
However, that still is a process.
The reality is however, that many
of the vulnerabilities have already been discovered.
These discoveries are documented
and often, they indicate the dependency inversion number
that is impacted by the security issue.
They also often document when the issue was fixed.
As such, the simplest path then,
is to upgrade your components to a fixed version.
Now I don't want to pretend that this is easy
from a system level.
But as for fixing issues with dependencies,
it often resolves the issue.
We will assume for the sake of this discussion
that nothing new is introduced,
which of course, is not always the case.
The real question however, is not how to fix these,
but instead, how to identify them.
There are actually several tools,
some free like from OWASP, that run scans
on your bill of materials, or dependency graph,
and identify which of your dependencies
are actually vulnerable to an attack.
Some paid tools even have detailed analysis
that provides more information
about the attack possibilities.
But ultimately, they all point to similar,
if not identical databases of CWEs and CVEs.
So your strategy needs to simply be this,
stay on top of dependencies, look for problem spots,
and address those problems as needed.